[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to House
of Well-Being.
You are listening to the
bereavement mind talk audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it
does, I'd just like
to remind you that the
following audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to cause deep relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart from close
your eyes, relax and let go,
and enjoy the peaceful feelings
and all the benefit that
comes with it.
I'd like you to take in a very
deep breath, slowly inhaling,
filling your lower
and upper lungs.
And exhaling again, allowing
your lungs to deflate naturally
and slowly.
And once you've done
that, I'd like you
once again to take in a deep
breath, filling your lungs.
And when you're ready,
allow that breath
to slowly release as you
exhale, gently and powerfully.
And now you can
allow your breathing
to return to normal, your
normal breathing pace.
Gentle breaths in and out
as you normally would.
And as you relax, you're
aware of your eyes,
of how comfortable they
feel, closed and relaxed,
totally at ease.
And I'd like you now to
focus only on my words,
and nothing else bothers
or concerns you at all.
This is your time, and no
one needs or wants anything
from you.
Putting everything
else aside, I'm
going to draw your attention
to various parts of your body.
And as I draw your attention
to that part of your body,
you can allow each part
to relax and to release,
each muscle and nerve,
every part of it as I
refer to it in turn.
So let's first focus
on your fingers
and your hands, your
wrists, your forearms,
and your upper arms.
And as you think about
this part of your body,
I'd like you to be aware of
any tension in those muscles,
and concentrate on that tension.
And now as you allow those
muscles to relax and release,
every nerve, every
fiber in your hands,
your wrists and fingers,
arms, allow that tension
to flow away now, to drain down,
allowing the muscles to rest
and release,
lengthen and loosen.
Feel your arms become heavier
as they release completely.
I'd like you now to
concentrate your attention
on your feet, your ankles,
your calves, your knees,
and the large muscles
of your thighs,
aware of any tension
in those muscles.
And as you concentrate
on them, you
can relax every muscle, every
fiber in your legs and feet,
allowing all of attention
to fade away now
as you drift deeper
into relaxation.
Muscles loosening and
lengthening as muscles
relax and release now.
Legs feeling heavy as
you release completely.
Aware now of your chest,
your lower back muscles,
your stomach muscles, your
upper back and upper chest.
Notice how all the muscles
in this part of your body
are now becoming more
and more relaxed,
loosening and lengthening
as each muscle releases
and tension drains away now.
Now allow your shoulders to
sink into the frame of your body
as you sink into relaxation.
All the little muscles in
your neck and scalp, aware
of the tension here.
And now you can
release that tension
as every muscle in
this part of your body
becomes more and more
relaxed, so that you
can feel each and every
muscle in your body
now loose and limp as that
comfortable heaviness continues
now.
And whilst you're
relaxing in this way,
I'd like you now to
use your imagination
to think about a
beautiful summer's day.
I'd like you to
imagine that you're
floating on a cloud, so
peaceful and so quiet.
You feel safe and secure,
and you enjoy the serenity
and peace as you
float and drift,
feeling so comfortable and calm.
You're completely at ease,
and every muscle and nerve
in your entire
body is completely
relaxed as you go deeper and
deeper into relaxation now.
And I wonder if you can
allow yourself to sink deeper
into relaxation now as I
count from one down to three.
And as I reach the
number three, you
can allow yourself to have
drifted much, much deeper
than you've ever been.
So one, your entire body
completely released now.
Every muscle, every
nerve, and every fiber
relaxed and at ease.
Your entire body feeling
completely relaxed
and comfortably heavy now.
And two, your head
feeling so heavy now.
And it's a really
pleasant feeling,
and you feel safe and secure.
And you're enjoying this
state of deep relaxation
as you fall further and
further into relaxation now.
And you're now deeper than
you've ever been, so deeply
relaxed that every
word I utter to you
will sink into your
subconscious mind
and create some powerful changes
as you sink deeper and deeper.
Mind alert, but body
totally relaxed now.
Losing someone we love is
the most difficult thing
that we ever have to cope with.
And at this particular time of
your life, it's natural for you
to experience many
unhappy feelings
that you find hard to bear.
Grieving is a highly
individual experience.
There's no right or
wrong way to grieve.
How you grieve depends
on many factors,
including your personality
and coping style, your life
experience, your faith, and
how significant the loss was
to you.
And you know that inevitably,
the grieving process
takes time.
Healing happens gradually.
It can't be forced or hurried,
and there's no normal timetable
for grieving.
While grieving a loss is
an inevitable part of life,
there are ways to help
cope with the pain,
come to terms with your
grief, and eventually
find a way to pick up
the pieces and continue
to live your life whilst dealing
with the pain and grieving.
The first step is to
acknowledge your pain
and to accept that
your grief may trigger
many different and
unexpected emotions, which
is perfectly normal.
Understanding that your grieving
process is unique to you,
so seek out support from the
people who care about you.
And always support
yourself emotionally
by taking care of
yourself physically.
As we all go through
the grieving process
in our own way, you may
feel that at the moment
you're in a dark tunnel
to which there is no end.
The emotions you experience
may change from day to day.
They may range from
denial to guilt or blame,
from anger, to the
eventual healing
stage, which is acceptance.
And some people claim to
feel no emotion at all.
It's as though a part
of them has died too.
And there may be times when
you feel you can't go on
without the person you lost.
And if that's the
case, then you can
accept that these feelings
are perfectly normal.
And we may ask ourselves,
why did it happen?
And you may ask yourselves
all kinds of questions.
You may wonder if
there was anything
you could have done to prevent
your loss from happening.
And perhaps you feel angry
that you've lost someone.
And this is all a part
of the grieving process,
and only you know what
you're feeling right now.
But you know that the
way you are feeling
is not making you
happy, and this
is why you're listening
to this mind talk today.
And you know that you loved
this very special person.
You still you, and I'm
sure you always will.
You remember that no one can
ever take that away from you.
And in time, it will
become easier for you.
But for now, if you
feel like crying,
then that's exactly what you do.
You know that you can't
bottle those feelings up,
because you know
they're an expression
of your feelings of loss.
And when someone passes away,
we're upset for ourselves,
as it's really our loss
that we're feeling.
The very special person that
you've lost is at peace,
and if they may
have been suffering,
that suffering is over now,
and that loved one in your life
will not have to go
through any more.
You may have beliefs of
your own that can help
you get through this period.
And some people believe
that the soul never
dies, but goes back
to where it came from
and to where one
day we will all go.
One thing is for
certain, that there
is a beginning and an end to
all our lives on this Earth,
and the memories that you hold
in your heart are precious.
Although the person you
love is no longer here
in a physical sense, you
remember that none of your past
is physical anymore,
so your loved
one will be with you forever.
All your memories are there, and
you can take your memories out
and look at them, feel
the presence of your loved
one in your heart.
You can feel that
calm acceptance
beginning to replace those
conflicting emotions.
And even now as you're
listening to this mind talk,
you're already beginning
to feel calmer.
And life becomes
brighter as you begin
to see the light at
the end of the tunnel.
And you can allow that
light to guide you out
of the dark tunnel of grief.
Imagine your loved one
is here by your side,
and how sad they
would be to know
that you're still grieving.
Hear the voice of that
loved one telling you
that it's now time
for you to move on,
to hold their memory
tight, and you
learn to live with that memory.
And in time, your grieving
becomes far less painful,
but the memory is just
as strong for you.
And maybe it's now time to begin
living the rest of your life.
And you've been carrying
the heavy burden of grief
for too long.
It's now time to release it
and to set yourself free,
keeping the memory
close to your heart,
but setting yourself free from
the heavy burden of grief.
So imagine now that
burden being lifted away,
and you feel yourself
becoming lighter.
And notice the opening at the
end of the tunnel becoming
larger as you draw nearer.
You experience
this lightness now
and some quiet for
a moment or two.
And as you approach the opening
and the light grows brighter,
you experience a sensation
of calm and peace.
And these feelings
of calmness and peace
tell you that you're now on
your way to accepting your loss.
You know in your heart
that each day, you'll
become a little
stronger, and each day
will become a little
easier for you to bear.
You will always
have your memories,
and you'll always have
love in your heart,
with each day becoming
a little bit easier.
You know that no one
could ever replace
that person that
you lost, and that's
exactly how it should be.
And maybe one day you still
find happiness in other people's
company, and that
doesn't lessen how
you feel for those who
have departed this life.
But now it's time to live your
life, accepting that loss.
And your loved one would be
urging you to do just that.
The loved one that
you lost would
be wanting you to find happiness
again when you're ready.
And you're ready now.
You have proved that
you're ready by using
your wonderful
subconscious mind to help
you to cope with your loss.
And you begin to immerse
yourself in other activities,
finding enjoyment
in life once again.
And perhaps you're able
to talk about your loss
to people who instinctively
know or understand
what you've been through.
And you can do this
without experiencing
the pain that used to
accompany such conversations.
Your memories focus
around little things that
make you smile and
appreciate the good times
you shared with your loved one.
And you realize that this
is an opportunity for you
to grow, to become
much more independent,
and you can pride yourself
on developing new skills.
And each new skill
that you master
is another step to recovery.
You take one day at a time,
taking each day as it comes.
And you're gentle with
yourself, allowing others
to comfort you if necessary,
and offering solace
to those who may be
facing similar emotions.
You recognize there may be
days when your sadness returns.
And if this happens,
you don't fight it.
Instead, you allow yourself
to feel as you do for a while,
but you follow these
episodes with something good.
Now is the time to
look after yourself,
to take care of yourself,
to pamper yourself,
because you know that you need
it, and that you're worth it.
You know that you can't
change what happened,
and you accept this.
And what you can do is
to be kind to yourself,
and you make sure that you are.
Every day becomes easier
and you become stronger.
You find yourself enjoying
different activities
and lending yourself
in some way that
makes life easier for others.
Perhaps you plant
a tree or a shrub
to symbolize how you
feel about the person
that you loved and lost.
And in doing this, you realize
you haven't lost your loved
one at all.
They left you a legacy and will
always be with you, something
to treasure for the
rest of your life.
You're moving forward now,
moving further and further
towards the light.
And every day, you feel
happier and stronger.
Every day becomes
easier for you.
And these suggestions are firmly
embedded in your subconscious
mind, and they grow stronger
and stronger day by day.
They grow stronger day by
day, stronger by the hour,
and stronger by the minute.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from one to five
to awaken you.
And at the count of five, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, bringing back with you
all the wonderful new feelings.
So coming back now.
One, two, three, four, and five.
Eyes open when you're ready.